If you are either a beginner or an expert in object-oriented programming you will love this MOOC because it will change the way you program with objects.
I am Stéphane Ducasse, with Luc Fabresse, Guillermo Polito and Pablo Tesone, we will present this MOOC on Advanced Object-Oriented Design and Development with Pharo. We have accumulated over 60 years of experience in 
OO design building large systems such as Pharo or the pillar document compilation toolchain. 

This mooc is rich and offers unique lectures. 
We will 
	cover test-driven design
	revisit essential object-oriented concepts
	and also present some foundational elements.
	
We will also 
	discuss advanced idioms such as double dispatch
	and advanced principles (registration, Law of Demeter, )

As design pattern experts we selected a set of design patterns. 
	
As Pharo team members we decided to use Pharo as a vehicule to illustrate this Mooc.
We will show concrte application of delegation or some design patterns.
Now all the concepts that are presented are applicable to any object-oriented languages. 

We are loving tests and unit tests. This is why we will also present test-driven development.
But we will go a step further and present Xtreme TDD. We will show how coding in the 
debugger is one of the coolest features of Pharo.

If you liked the Pharo mooc http://mooc.pharo.org, you will just love "Advanced Object-Oriented Design and Development with Pharo ". It will bring you to the next level.

At the end of this mooc you will have a totally new perspective on Object-oriented design and you will never program the same way. 



Bonjour,

J'espère que tout va bien pour vous malgré les deadlines d'article et la préparation du tournage.

Pour anticiper le tournage du teaser avec l'utilisation du prompteur :

------ Conseils pour le texte du teaser
* Le teaser explique la thématique, les objectifs pédagogiques du cours
* Le teaser indique le public cible du cours
* Le teaser met en valeur les approches et outils pédagogiques éventuels
* La durée maximale de la vidéo est de 2 minutes
* Les enseignants du cours figurant dans la vidéo se présentent ou sont présentés par un texte (sous forme de cartouche par exemple)
* La vidéo est accessible : l'essentiel de l'information est compréhensible si on regarde la vidéo avec le son coupé ou avec le son seul.
* Les éléments visuels informatifs sont vocalisés (par l'intervenant de la vidéo ou de la voix off)
* Les dates du cours ne sont pas annoncées dans la vidéo pour pérennité du teaser

-------- Pour mémo et calibrage du texte, voici celui du précédent teaser
If you are either a beginner or an expert in object-oriented programming you will love this MOOC because it will change the way you program with objects.
I am Stéphane Ducasse, with Luc Fabresse and Damien Cassou, we will present this MOOC about Pharo.

What is Pharo?
Pharo is a dynamic and pure language that will offer you a unique development experience
in which you will be in constant interaction with live objects.Pharo is a language and an open source environment in the tradition of Smalltalk.

It is fun to use, elegant and very powerful. Why do I say that Pharo is elegant?
In fact, it is very simple: its full syntax, and I insist on “full”, can be written on a postcard and its object-oriented model written in 4 lines. Moreover, Pharo and its environment are written in Pharo itself exclusively with objects and messages.
All these points make Pharo very easy to learn and once you have understood the syntax,
you will have access to the whole Pharo world, hence it is written in Pharo itself.
That is why Pharo is used in about thirty universities all over the world to teach object-oriented programing.

In this MOOC, you will discover that Pharo is fun. In fact, when programing in Pharo,
you are immersed in a world of live objects. Each time the programer modifies its code, the 3D animation changes and he can see immediately the result of its program.
In Pharo, the programer modifies continuously objects with immediate feedback. These objects can represent web applications, graphics in 2D, in 3D, network, or even code itself. You will see that in Pharo everything is object.
In this MOOC, you will discover that Pharo is also a powerful language, used in companies. And you can discover some success stories on Pharo’s website.
In this MOOC, we will also present Pharo’s web stack and how this stack revolutionizes
the way web applications are designed. 
During this MOOC, you will deploy a web application fully written in Pharo.

Beyond this, we will revisit fundamental principles of programing by illustrating how Pharo uses them. We will present some coding idioms and design patterns to better design web applications. Such concepts can be applied to any object-oriented language beyond Pharo.

Moreover, you will have access to many resources such as the book “Pharo by example” which is available on Pharo’s website.
For the most experienced of you, this MOOC will provide a new vision of the fundamental principles of object-oriented programming (i.e. late binding and polymorphism).
Through out this MOOC come and discover or rediscover object-oriented programing in a different world, the world of Pharo…

---------

A votre disposition pour vous aider à préparer le texte.

